>> Kyle: But there's more to it than it
just takes inputs and does something and
returns another value.
Because if I took some inputs x and y and
then just on line 2 I said like return 40.
I'm gonna go out on a limb and
say that wouldn't really in the truest
spirit be considered a function.
>> Kyle: It would take inputs and
it would return a value, but
it really wouldn't be
the spirit of a function.
And to understand
the spirit of a function,
we really have to get back to the math.
Now I promised I'm not gonna
teach you a math course,
we're just gonna dip our little
toe into this math just briefly so
that you can understand the spirit
of functional programming.
Does anybody remember this kind
of stuff in like eighth grade.
The way I remember this is the TI 85
graphing calculator where we plug
the thing in and
drew pictures and stuff, okay?
I remember this kind of stuff and
I remember it used to look like
y equals 2x squared plus 3.
I remember for
months learning about these things, and
just randomly coming up with numbers
that meant absolutely nothing.
They were just completely abstract,
not concrete at all.
And then we pulled out
a graphing calculator and
wow, all of a sudden this thing
actually meant something concrete,
it meant a drawing, that looks like, a u.
But I wish at that time and I wish now the
kids that are learning this stuff, they're
not using graphing calculators anymore
probably, they're just using their phones.
But I wish that somebody would say hey,
guess what there's
a concrete thing that's happening, which
is that you're taking an input value.
In this case an x coordinate,
we're gonna interpret the input value as
an x coordinate, like the input value one.
We're gonna put it into this thing
called f(x), which is the function of x,
I wish somebody said to me, hey, how you
do like programming this kind of the same
thing, like you put an input and
it's gonna give you an output.
Nobody connected that dot for me at all
I wish they had, cuz I've been a lot
further along as a programmer if somebody
connected it to this kind of stuff.
But I remember plugging in the number one
or the number two or the number three and
getting these other numbers out.
One gives me the number five,
and two gives me the number 11.
And I remember,
if you did a bunch of those dots and
then you literally connected the dots,
it would draw this same parabola.
In other words,
the output value is interpreted as
the y component of the coordinate.
The input value is interpreted as the x
coordinate, and when you take the input
and the output together, we can
interpret their meaning as a parabola.
>> Kyle: So what is a function?
A function is a relationship
between the input and the output.
There's a semantic relationship between
what I put in, and what I get out.
>> Kyle: If we would
write this in JavaScript,
we could just write function f and passing
in an x and get back some other thing.
But what would be a better name for
that function,
>> Kyle: How about parabola?
>> Kyle: To describe to the reader of our
code the relationship, the relationship
is that if you put in an x coordinate,
you're gonna get a y coordinate out.
That's why I said a slight ago that just
returning 40 isn't really the spirit of
a function because there's no relationship
between the inputs and that output.
That doesn't mean that if
something returns a number,
then it can't be a function.
It just means that it matters if there's
an obvious relationship between the two.
And if you're making things that
don't have an obvious relationship
between the input and the output, and that
happens far more often than we realize.
If you're doing that,
you're not really accomplishing
the spirit of functional programming.
>> Kyle: The goal here is to create
relationships that are obvious to
the reader of our code.
So, a function is
the semantic relationship
between input and computed output.
Here if I make a function
called shippingRate,
the name of the function tells
you the semantic relationship.
If I put in size, weight, and speed,
I'm going to get a shipping rate back out.
That's what it's for.
>> Kyle: That's what functional
programming bases itself on, okay?
That everything that we use, some people
metaphorically refer to them as Legos,
like if you're playing with Legos,
or whatever.
Every Lego in our app,
[LAUGH] has to have a name that describes
a semantic relationship between
the input and the output.
You have lots of functions, aka,
procedures in your app, probably
tens of thousands for some of you.
How many of them, if you go and
look at the name of the function,
would you be able to understand
the name of the procedure, rather.
How many of those would you
be able to clearly understand
the relationship between the inputs and
the outputs?
How many of you even produce outputs?
Probably not that many, most of them
probably do a lot of other things.
Really useful things like writing
to a database and blah, blah, but
not a lot of them probably
return you a value.
>> Kyle: So you have to put some special
sunglasses on if you were to start
looking at the code around you with this
question of, is it a function or not?
Is it taking an input, and by the way,
no input is a valid input.
It doesn't have to have a number,
the absence of an input is valid input.
But is there a semantic relationship
between what I put in and what I get out?
And by the way,
undefined is a valid output,
as long as there's a semantic
relationship to the input.
If I have a function who's
job is to take an object and
try to get a certain property off of it.
And that object doesn't have the property,
the proper,
correct semantic return value
would be undefined, would it not?
That's entirely consistent
with functional programming.
>> Kyle: But there has to be
an obvious semantic relationship or
we're not doing functional programming.